[CSE-411] Update cross-dag-dependencies.md (#2843)
astronomer/docs: astro/airflow-api.md

- Use the Astro access token from Step 1 for authentication.
- Replace `airflow.apache.org` with your Deployment URL from Step 1.

> ## Step 4: (Optionally) Make an HTTP Airflow Connection

Reviewer: Hmm, yeah I didn't realize this was referenced in the section you removed from the Learn doc. This seems out of place to me here, since it doesn't apply to most of the examples below that use curl (or are making calls not from another DAG). We probably should have this as a separate Connections doc in Learn and just link to it from the Trigger DAG Runs Across Deployments section. Alternatively if it's easier in the shorter term, I would just add this into the steps in the Trigger DAG Runs Across Deployments section.

Author: The specifics of the HTTP operator for airflow could trip someone up - so it'd be weird but desired for an 'airflow specific http conn', but agreed, there should be an http connections doc. I'll move it to the lower section for now

You can create a connection in Airflow to use Airflow Operators such as the [SimpleHttpOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow-providers-http/versions/latest/modules/SimpleHttpOperator) to execute calls against Airflows API.

  :::info

>   If the `HTTP` connection type is not available, double check that the [HTTP provider](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow-providers-http/versions/latest) is installed in your Airflow environment. Ensure that `apache-airflow-providers-http` is listed in your `requirements.txt`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If the `HTTP` connection type is not available, double-check that the [HTTP provider](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow-providers-http/versions/latest) is installed in your Airflow environment. If not, add `apache-airflow-providers-http` to your `requirements.txt`. 
```

>   If it is not you can add it manually to the file or with [`astro registry provider add http`](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/astro-registry-provider-add)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  It is also possible to add it with [`astro registry provider add http`](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/astro-registry-provider-add)
```

  :::

To create an [HTTP Airflow Connection](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-http/4.5.1/connections/http.html), follow these steps:

> 1. In the Airflow UI, navigate to `Admin > Connections`. Hit the `+` button to add a new connection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Airflow UI, navigate to `Admin > Connections`. Hit the `+` button to add a new connection.
```

> 2. Your connection should look like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Define your connection as follow:
```

> 

Reviewer 3: I can't make a comment here, but `## Trigger DAG runs across Deployments` should be one level lower in the TOC I think (so `### Trigger DAG runs across Deployments`)

Reviewer 3: Because technically, isn't this another REST API example? So it should fall under the "## Example API Requests" topic

This topic has guidelines on how to trigger a DAG run, but you can modify the example DAG provided to trigger any request that's supported in the Airflow REST API.

> 1. Create an access token, as described in Step 1 of this document.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Create a [Deployment API token](deployment-api-tokens.md) for the Deployment that contains the DAG you want to trigger.
```
Can we be prescriptive here and recommend Deployment level tokens?

> 2. On the triggering Deployment, create an Airflow HTTP Connection. See [Set environment variables on Astro](environment-variables.md) if you want to create this connection as an Astro Deployment Variable instead.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. In the Deployment that contains the triggering DAG, create an [Airflow HTTP connection](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-http/stable/connections/http.html) with the following values: 

    - **Connection Id**: `http_conn`
    - **Connection Type**: HTTP
    - **Host**: `<your-deployment-url>`
    - **Schema**: `https`
    - **Extras**: 
        ```json
        {
            "Content-Type": "application/json",
            "Authorization": "Bearer <your-deployment-api-token>"
        }
        ```

    See [Manage connections in Apache Airflow](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/connections).
```

>   :::info
> 
>   If the `HTTP` connection type is not available, double-check that the [HTTP provider](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow-providers-http/versions/latest) is installed in your Airflow environment. If not, add `apache-airflow-providers-http` to your `requirements.txt`. 
>   It is also possible to add it with [`astro registry provider add http`](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/astro-registry-provider-add)
> 
>   :::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  :::info

  If the `HTTP` connection type is not available, double check that the [HTTP provider](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow-providers-http/versions/latest) is installed in your Airflow environment. If it's not, add `apache-airflow-providers-http` to the `requirements.txt` file of our Astro project and redeploy it to Astro. 

  :::
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> To create an [HTTP Airflow Connection](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-http/4.5.1/connections/http.html), follow these steps:
> 
>     1. In the Airflow UI, navigate to `Admin > Connections`. Hit the `+` button to add a new connection.
>     2. Define your connection as follow:
>         - Connection Id: Pick a name for your connection - operators will refer to this name
>         - Connection Type: HTTP
>         - Host: `<your-deployment-url>`
>         - Schema: https
>         - Extras: 
>         ```json
>         {
>             "Content-Type": "application/json",
>             "Authorization": "Bearer <your-access-token>"
>         }
>         ```
> 
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> 3. In your DAG, add a task using the [SimpleHttpOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow-providers-http/versions/latest/modules/SimpleHttpOperator) to execute calls against Airflows API. We will use the Airflow Connection ID from the previous step to make a request to the `dagRuns` endpoint of the Airflow REST API. For example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. In your triggering DAG, add the following task. It uses the [SimpleHttpOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow-providers-http/versions/latest/modules/SimpleHttpOperator) to make a request to the `dagRuns` endpoint of the Deployment that contains the DAG to trigger.
```

    ```python
    from datetime import datetime
    from airflow import DAG
    from airflow.providers.http.operators.http import SimpleHttpOperator

    with DAG(dag_id="triggering_dag", schedule=None, start_date=datetime(2023, 1, 1)):
        SimpleHttpOperator(
            task_id="trigger_external_dag",
            log_response=True,
            method="POST",
                # Change this to the DAG_ID of the DAG you are triggering
            endpoint=f"api/v1/dags/<triggered_dag>/dagRuns",

>             http_conn_id="<your-http-connection-id>",

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            http_conn_id="http_conn",
```

This topic has guidelines on how to trigger a DAG run, but you can modify the example DAG provided to trigger any request that's supported in the Airflow REST API.

> 1. Create an access token, as described earlier in this document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create an access token, as described in Step 1 of this document.
```

> 2. On the triggering Deployment, create an Airflow connection as described earlier in this document. See [Set environment variables on Astro](environment-variables.md) if you want to create this connection as an Astro Deployment Variable instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. On the triggering Deployment, create an Airflow connection as described in Step 4. See [Set environment variables on Astro](environment-variables.md) if you want to create this connection as an Astro Deployment Variable instead.
```

> 3. In your DAG, add a task using the `SimpleHttpOperator`, and use the Airflow Connection to make a request to the `dagRuns` endpoint of the Airflow REST API. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. In your DAG, add a task using the `SimpleHttpOperator`, and use the Airflow Connection ID from Step 4 to make a request to the `dagRuns` endpoint of the Airflow REST API. For example:
```

    ````python
    from datetime import datetime

>     with DAG(dag_id="triggering_dag", schedule=None, start_date=datetime(2023, 1, 1))

Reviewer 2: Consider adding both Taskflow and Traditional API examples here.

Author: @jwitz / @lzdanski do we have any guidelines around that 🤔 I'll follow whatever the existing pattern is. Though, unless you mean `@task -> requests.post` there isn't quite an equivalent

>     with DAG(dag_id="triggering_dag", schedule=None, start_date=datetime(2023, 1, 1))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    with DAG(dag_id="triggering_dag", schedule=None, start_date=datetime(2023, 1, 1)):
```

Author: Friggin... robots 😂 takin my job. I just did this by hand - didn't yet actually try it in Airflow. Will fix

        SimpleHttpOperator(
            task_id="trigger_external_dag",
            log_response=True,
            method="POST",
                # Change this to the DAG_ID of the DAG you are triggering
            endpoint=f"api/v1/dags/<triggered_dag>/dagRuns",

>             http_conn_id="<your http connection>",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            http_conn_id="<your-http-connection-id>",
```

            data={
                "logical_date": "{{ logical_date }}",
                
                # if you want to add parameters:
                # params: '{"foo": "bar"}'
            }
        )

>     ```

Reviewer 2: The opening code block has 4 backticks, and the closing has 3. Not sure if this breaks anything.
